#  DS 143 - Green Hydrogen Project

This project explores curtailment and green hydrogen in the California Independent System Operator (CAISO) between 2023-2024.

## Description

This project examines curtailment in the California Independent System Operator (CAISO) in 2023-2024 in the context of opportunities to generate green hydrogen. Both classification and quantile regression models are explored to understand the features are correlated with the occurrence of curtailment and the 0.75 quantile of curtailment, respectively.

## Project Files

    ### Data Files

    The data used for the project is stored in multiple sub-folders. The original data sources are listed in the final_data_query.ipynb notebook.

        #### Used as inputs
        1) The /Battery folder contains the battery_en.csv and battery_soc.csv files that are used to generate the main DataFrame in the final_data_query.ipynb notebook.
        2) The /Load folder contains the historicalemshourlyloadfor2023.csv file which contains the load information for 2023. It also contains the /2024 folder which contains twelve monthly load .csv files for 2024. These thirteen files are used to generate the main DataFrame in the final_data_query.ipynb notebook.
        3) The /Production_Curtailment folder contains the productionandcurtailmentsdata_2023.csv and productionandcurtailmentsdata_2024.csv files that are used to generate the main DataFrame in the final_data_query.ipynb notebook.

        #### Generated as outputs
        4) The /LMP folder contains the LMP_data.parquet file.
        5) The cleaned_data.csv file is generated by the final_data_query.ipynb notebook.
        6) The final_data.csv file is generated by the feature_engineering_multicollinearity.ipynb notebook.

    ### Analysis Notebooks

        1) The /LMP folder contains the Final_LMP_data_query.ipynb notebook used to access the CAISO OASIS API and query the total locational marginal price data. Running this script generates the LMP_data.parquet file.
        2) The final_data_query.ipynb file accesses the data in each of the data folders (/LMP, /Load, /Battery, and /Production_Curtailment) generates the original cleaned DataFrame (cleaned_data.csv).
        3) The feature_engineering_multicollinearity.ipynb file imports the cleaned_data.csv file, addresses multicollinearity, and generates the final_data.csv file used to fit both models.
        4) The Quantile_Regression.ipynb file performs a quantile regression using the final_data.csv file.
        5) The Final_LogisticRegression.ipynb file performs and tunes a logistic regression model using the final_data.csv file.

    ### Supporting Documentation
        1) Final_Data_Dictionary.xlsx describes the variables included in the analysis.

## Instructions

The analysis notebooks should be run in the following order:
    1) Final_LMP_data_query.ipynb should output LMP_data.parquet
    2) final_data_query.ipynb should output cleaned_data.csv
    3) feature_engineering_multicollinearity.ipynb should output final_data.csv
    4) Quantile_Regression.ipynb or Final_LogisticRegression.ipynb in either order: they will produce results for their respective model

## Libraries

All libraries needed for analysis should already be on the course cluster.

